



1. What would be a good choice of performance metric in a binary classifica￾tion scenario with far more negative than positive samples?
2. When training an auto-encoder for anomaly detection, how should the
data set be split?
3. What are examples of activation functions in a deep neural network, and
what are their characteristics?

4. What is a common use of this expression: -(1/m) Σ [hθ(X) - Y]²
(This is a cost / loss function (specifically a variant of the Mean Squared Error used in linear regression or similar supervised learning models).)


5. Why are Genetic Algorithms a viable choice for the Traveling Salesman
Problem?
6. What are the requirements for an activation function for a deep neu￾ral network, if the network must be able to approximate any non-linear
function?
7. Can a latent space be interpreted directly? Why or why not?
8. What is the data type of these examples: a) monetary value, b) Olympic
medals, c) accuracy of a binary classification model.
9. Why do we want generalized models rather than perfectly fit models?
10. Explain supervised vs unsupervised learning.
11. Explain the concepts of bias and variance.



12. What is a common use of this expression:  (λ / 2m) Σ θ²
(This is the L2 regularization term (Ridge regularization penalty), commonly added to the cost function in linear/logistic regression to prevent overfitting.)

13. True or false: correlation implies causation?
14. When would you use a Random Forest model rather than a deep neural
network?
15. What kind of problem are Genetic Algorithms well suited for?
16. What is Gradient Descent, and how does it work?
17. Explain the structure of an auto-encoder.
18. What kind of nodes can we find in a Decision Tree model?

19. What is a common use of this expression:  -(1/m) Σ [Y log(hθ(X)) + (1 - Y) log(1 - hθ(X))]
(This is the Binary Cross-Entropy Loss (also called Log Loss), the standard cost function for Logistic Regression.)

20. What performance metrics are relevant when working with classification
problems?
21. What performance metrics are relevant when working with regression
problems?
22. True or false: Deep Neural Networks can only solve non-linear problems.
23. What is the purpose of mutation in Genetic Algorithms?

24. Explain why we need a complex model like a deep neural network to solve
the XOR problem.
25. Explain why the decision boundary of K-Means always result in a Voronni
tessellation.
26. How to turn a 100 dimensional data set into 8 dimensions with minimal
loss of variance.
27. What is a confusion matrix?
28. True or false: When doing correlational analysis on parametric data, we
should use Pearson’s r rather than Spearman’s rho?
29. Explain the difference between Gini and Entropy.
30. What two categories do the four data types fall into?
31. In an article, what is the purpose of the method section?
32. What makes good references for an article?
33. Explain SIMD makes machine learning faster.
34. Explain convolutions and pooling layers in a CNN.
35. What is the output range of sigmoid, and why is this important?
36. What is the purpose of an activation function in a deep neural network?
37. True or false: erroneously classifying a pregnant woman as not pregnant is
a Type 1 error.
38. True or false: to establish a baseline for the performance of machine
learning models, it is a good idea to compare with human performance?
39. How can we use Monte Carlo simulations in machine learning?
40. True or false: All good models are wrong.
41. What is the difference between descriptive and inferential statistics?
42. When using an auto-encoder for anomaly detection, how can we establish
a baseline to discriminate between positive and negative samples?
43. Explain the use of training, validation, and test sets in supervised learning.
44. Explain the structure of a deep neural network.
45. Explain the procedure of training a model in supervised learn   ing using a
training set, validation set, and test set.
46. What is an ensemble algorithm?
47. In Genetic Algorithms, how does the phenotype relate to the genotype?
48. What are two common use cases of principal component analysis?
49. What are the data types of the target value in classification and regression
problems?
50. True or false: XOR is a linear problem that can be solved using linear
models.
51. Explain hyper-parameters vs learning coefficients in a machine learning
model.
52. True or false: when training Batch Gradient Descent, the cost of approxi￾mation is expected to fluctuate during training?
53. What are two ways of doing regularization in a deep neural network?
54. Which variation of K-Means is appropriate for non-parametric data?
55. In Genetic Algorithms, what is the purpose of the fitness function?
56. Name three centrality measures in statistics. What are their strengths and
weaknesses?

57. Most problems suited for Genetic Algorithms could also be solved using
which kind of AI?
58. What can we say about a model with 0.997 accuracy on the training set
and 0.874 accuracy on the validation set?
59. True or false: when training Stochastic Gradient Descent, the cost of
approximation is expected to fluctuate during training?
60. Name a clustering algorithm that is able to work with concave data sets.
61. A model deciding by flipping a coin is used to predict the outcome of
flipping a coin. What is the expected accuracy and Youden’s index of this
model’s performance?
62. What is a decision boundary?
63. What is the purpose of grid-search? Name an alternative approach.
64. What operation must always be performed on a data set before applying
principal component analysis?
65. Explain RMSE vs MAE.
66. True or false: ratio data is preferable over interval data?
67. You are training a Genetic Algorithm but the models does not seem to
improved over generations. How would you try to solve the problem?
68. True or false: when training a Reinforcement Learning model with contin￾uous action and state space, you should use Q-Learning with a Q-table.
69. True or false: a problem must be falsifiable to be a scientific question.
70. Explain how the null-hypothesis relates to a hypothesis.
71. Which of these are more sensitive to outliers: MSE or MAE.
72. Explain the softmax function.
73. You want to design a deep neural network for a Genetic Algorithm to
play the classic 8-bit game Lunar Lander. The State space is defined
as follows: S = {x, y, vx, vy} for x-position, y-position, x-velocity, and
y-velocity, respectively. All state space variables are relative to the center
of the landing platform. The Action space is defined as follows: A =
{tmain, tlef t, tright} for main-thruster, left-thruster, and right-thruster,
respectively. How would you design the deep neural network?













